# assignment-2
Data Mining Assignment Phase 2

Q1) The domain of this project is a bakery chain that consists about 40 different pastry items and 10 diferent drinks. There are 50 items in total with their product ID ranging from 0 to 49 in the dataset "1000i.csv" (Extended Bakery Dataset with 1000 receipts). The potential benefits that could be derived from association rule mining is that it could help to analyze the data and predict the customer behavior on buying the items. In association rule, it uses if/then pattern and uses 2 type of criterias which are "support" and "confidence". Support indicates of how ferequent the items appear in the database, while confidence is the indication of the number of times the if/then statement found to be true. So what would improve the use of the patterns? We can predict the customer's likeliness of buying some specific items with the "confidence" criteria applied.

Q2) There are two datasets that we are using for the phase two of this assignment, one of the dataset known as “goods.csv” which is a list of items, these items are different type of foods and drink. Each item has a corresponding ID, flavour, food, price and type and only ID and price are numeric data type and others are character data type. This data was actually retrieve from a MySQL file, first, we replace these particular character in the sql file such as “INSERT INTO goods Value (” and “ ); ”in the sql file with a blank character, after that, we read the sql file in R Studio by using read.csv() with a parameter of there is a header and columns of “Item_ID”, “Flavour”, “Food” , “Price” and “type”. Finally, we exported the sql file into .csv format and treat this sql file as a new data frame by using write.csv() this function. 

   Next, we created a new column known as Item_Name by combining the characters in these two columns of “flavour” and “food” together, the value that obtained from the two columns shall be know as and represent as the name of a food or a drink of each item in the dataset. After that, we remove unnecessary columns such as “flavour ” , “food” , “type” and “price”.
   
   The second dataset known as “1000i.csv”, this dataset has three variables and 3538 of observations. Every value in this dataset are numeric data type and contains no header. The preprocess that was done in the second dataset is to rename the header as “Transaction_ID”, “Item_count” and “Item_ID” for this dataset and then we try to merge the two dataset together based on the column of “Item_ID” of each dataset. Hence, we will have a new dataset of each of the transactions has a set of items and lastly, we read  this new data set as a transactions data type. 

Q3) The choice of the algorithm for this phase two of this assignment is Apriori , this particular algorithm is to find the frequent item set among the given number of transactions. The parameter setting of this algorithm is finding the minimum support value of 0.005 percent and confidence value 50 percent. The time required of this algorithm to generate the association rules  is 0.015 seconds and the time was generated by tic() and toc() methods.

Q4) The total number of the association rules that were generated is 134, but among all the rules , some of them are redundant. We have to remove all the redundant rules, the total number of the association rules was reduced until 42 rules.  The association rules that were discovered  can provide a prediction of a particular forecast of customer choice, for instances, if a customer buy Vanilla Frappuccino and Walnut Cookie , the next item that the customers most likely is to 
purchase is Chocolate Tart.  

Q5) With the asoociation rules discovered, the client can improve their store layout to increase the sales of least item bought in their store. Besides that, the client can do such promotion based on the association rules results. Not only that, they can also update their product catalog to boost up their sales.
